Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
ROBIN:You realising how difficult
life can be in the forest?
How long have you and
your men been following me?
You're jumpy.
Answer me!
Gisborne, I have better
things to do with my day.
I'm alone. TWIG SNAPS
Very well.
Really?
You're really sure you
want to do this now?
Why not? What, honestly?
I don't think you have the energy. I
don't need food or sleep to drive me.
Then what do you need? Revenge.
On who? Prince John?
Prince John will keep.
Isabella will not. Neither will you.
Gisborne? Ah!
WOLF HOWLS
What is this?
Who's done this? Hood? No.
Where are you?
You're a coward to take
us like this.Show yourself!
Gisborne.
Who sent you? Prince John?No, this
is one of your sister's tricks.
What would Isabella want with us?
I want you to listen and understand.
Someone's life depends on it.
I find it hard to
understand when I'm tied.
Now free me! I'll free you.
Free you from the bad blood
that shackles you to each other.
Well, maybe there are good
reasons for that bad blood.
What do you know about
our lives, anyway?
More than you do.
I know the truth.
The truth about what? About
how your parents really died.
My father's inside!
Yours, too! And your
mother! Do something!
You know about the fire.
So? It was never a secret.
Everybody knew that we both
became orphans that day.
There are still things you
don't know about your past.
Oh, Ghislaine, I've been
thinking about you all day.
We do not have much time, but
if you wish to talk, then...
Oh! Oh, I look forward to the
day when we no longer have to hide
in stables and outhouses to
do this. Not long now, my love.
My father loved one woman
only, and that was my mother.
That's just what you were told.
The truth was kept from
you by your precious father.
What are you talking about?!
He shielded you from
reality like he always did.
You were never made to face the
consequences of your actions.
You were once on a very
different path, Robin.
Robin, come and give
Swain a hand! Yes, Father.
Guy, Isabella, come with me.
Ladies and gentlemen!
I am so pleased you decided to join me
in celebrating the safe return
of our men from the Holy Land.
Sadly, not everyone was
able to make the journey back
and I would ask that we think also of
our loved ones who died on this day.
As you know, I feel your
pain as it is my own,
my own husband being among the dead.
My Lady Gisborne.
As bailiff of these parts, it's my duty
to ask who will now be lord of the manor.
Longthorn! Now is not the
time. No. He's right to ask.
There will be no lord.
Instead, there will
be a lady of the manor.
So...
we're expected to serve a woman.
A French woman.
The land should be
returned to Lord Locksley.
Longthorn! This village was awarded
to your husband for his
services in the Holy Land.
Now he is dead, it's your
right to reclaim them.
A right I will not be exercising.
Sir Roger fought and
died for an English King.
His family should be respected.
To Sir Roger of Gisborne.
ALL:Sir Roger of Gisborne!
Now, to celebrate
those who have returned
and to honour those who have not,
I want you to join me
in enjoying something
the men have brought
back from their travels.
The Fire Wheel will light our skies
to show us that our darkest
days are now behind us.
Now, I need two strong
men to lift the wheel,
and thetwo best archers in the county.
Robin, will you help me?
And Guy? Father, may I?
Robin... I want to make the shot.
And you will, but not
because of the bow.
You're not ready.
I don't know why you're bothering, Guy.
You're a terrible shot.
I'm younger than you and everyone
knows I'm the best shot in the village.
Only because you keep
telling everyone you are.
I thought your father said
you couldn't use his bow.
You're not ready. I'm going
to show him he was wrong.
I can hit that lantern
with this. Watch.
Don't be so stupid!
Look what you've done!
No!
Seize the boy!
Help me!
Don't just stand there!
Somebody get a physician!
Let me see him. I can help.
Yousee?You see what your
stupid prank has done?
I didn't do it. Who did, then?
It wasn't me! Of course
it wasn't, Master Robin.
You wouldn't fire at your
own father.No, I swear.
He fired the arrow that caused the
priest's injuries. He's a murderer!
I didn't... Huh? One
of yours, Master Guy?
How dare you?!It's not a
question of daring, but duty.
As bailiff, it's my
job to uphold the law.
I warn you only to hold the boy.
Any further action and you
will have me to answer to.
What? No! He will only
be charged if he dies.
Get him to the manor,
quickly. You heard her.
Carefully! Carefully!
Everybody out. Leave us. Let her work.
His rib is broken and
it has punctured a lung.
His chest is filling with air.
There must be something you can do.
Ah, yes...
What are you doing?
It will release the air. Father...
Just breathe. Careful. Better?
Father! They're going to hang Guy!
I can't leave him. I cannot leave him.
I'll put an end to this.
Did you see the way she declared
herself lady of the manor?
She has no right to this
estate! Like an eye for an eye.
The boy must hang! Have you
taken leave of your senses?
If you do this, you will
have to answer for it.
We must all pay for
our actions, my lord.
You were told not to
harm the boy. True.
But now I feel compelled
by the will of the people,
and they want justice,
and to that end...
Then you force my hand... Stop!
I command you to stop!
On whose authority?
The King's, as he made
me lord of this manor.
I'm Sir Roger of Gisborne,
this boy's father.
No!What? You doubt my word?
We thought you were dead.
I was captured, not killed.
Out of my way. I can't do that.
As bailiff, I must uphold the law.
You are no longer
bailiff! Out of my way!
You will never hold office again
as long as I'm lord of this manor.
He will live! Swain will live!
Roger!
They told me...
I was captured.
There was no way to get word to
you. Captured? Did they hurt you?
I must talk with you
at once, Ghislaine.
ROBIN: I was truly sorry
for what happened that night.
It was a mistake which I learnt from.
And it was one that
made me a better man.
Do you think Mother watches me?
From heaven?
I'm sure she does. I'm sure
she sees everything you do.
Father...
it was me that shot the arrow.
I was showing off
with your bow.
Robin...
...one day you will
be lord of Locksley,
lord of my lands.
You must grow up and learn
to take responsibility
when you do something wrong.
You could be the best shot in England.
You shouldn't stand by and
let something terrible happen
because you were too scared
to do the right thing.
Do you understand?
Yes.
GISBORNE:Ah, how touching(!)
Look, I really don't see
the point of any of this.
You need to know the
truth to save a life.
Oh, we should not do this.
Malcolm...
I have done what I thought was right.
I have stayed away from you.
You have no idea how hard that's been.
Of course I do. But you
understand, I had to care for Roger.
I understand more than you think.
I know about his affliction.
How?The night of his return,
Longthorn's dagger went straight through
his hand and he didn't even cry out.
He told me he was
infected in the Holy Land.
All he wanted was to get back home and
spend his last days with his family.
He made his own way home, away from
his soldiers, so they wouldn't know.
But people will know.
There is talk about the bandages.
The fact he barely leaves
your house. He is a sick man!
He is a leper! And if he is
discovered you will all be cast out.
You should not have been put
in this position, Ghislaine.
There is something else.
More lies! There was never any child.
What are you doing?
If you think me a liar, there's
no point in you being here.
You're going to kill me with
no means to defend myself?
I expected nothing less
from you, Bailiff Longthorn!
Hear my story or walk away.
But if you do, your brother will die.
Do you want that on your consciences?
Keep talking.
You understand now?
I must go away.
Roger will know for sure
this is not his child.
Then I will declare my feelings
for you and we can be a family.
But I am married to another man!
If he is discovered, he will
be banished from the village.
He'll be stripped of his title,
his lands. You will have nothing.
Ghislaine, listen.
If he is declared a leper
you will be given a choice.
You can declare yourself a widow.
But that would be a lie!
In the eyes of God...
In the eyes of the law,
you will be free of him.
But the baby will show.
People will still know.
Roger has been back a very short time.
Then you will have our baby in secret.
I will arrange for it to be taken away.
No!Only for a short while!
Once you are recovered from the birth,
you can go on a pilgrimage
and bring him back.
Claim he is a foundling
- an orphan.
With that, we can be a family.
Roger, I did not expect to see you.
I was restless. I went for a ride.
Of course.
And on this ride, did
you happen to see anyone?
Malcolm Locksley, perhaps?
How did you know?
Because I am your husband.
And I have failed you as a wife.
No.
It is I who failed you...
leaving you alone and
returning like this.
No, Roger...
You will never know how grateful
I am that you've kept my secret,
and allowed me to see out my
days with you and the children.
And I'm glad you've found someone
who will care for you when I've gone.
All I ask is that he has the
patienceto wait until that day.
Roger, you must go.
Not for me,
for yourself
- now.
I don't understand.
I'm sorry. I thought that
I was doing the right thing.
You must leave right away.
POUNDING ON DOOR
Not already...
Sir Roger, I think you
know why we're here.
Oh, will you not show him mercy?
I saved your life! I'm
sorry. This is God's will.
Roger of Gisborne, you are
a leper... Mother, please.
...and, as such, are to be cast
out from the society of others.
No, don't let them do this. Guy!
You must act like a
man and not a child.
Do not shame me.
From this day forward you are
deemed unclean. Do you understand?
I do.
As his wife, you may go with him
or you may declare yourself a widow
and be free of your impediment.
Impediment? He is my husband!
Ghislaine, you must set an
example for the children.
Do you declare?
Yes.
From today I am a widow.
Very well.
Roger of Gisborne, I forbid you
ever to enter any church, market,
tavern or any assembly of people.
I forbid you to drink or eat
from any vessel but your own.
I forbid you to touch any child.
Now you must leave this place.
Thank you. Care for her.
Care for them all.
Father!
Get away from me!
You did this.
I'll never forgive you.
I'm not going in here.
It's a leper's house.
Shut your mouth! Why? It's true.
Your father is a leper... Shut up!
Guy, no!
It is a good thing your
father is not here to see this.
He would be ashamed of your behaviour.
Hey!
Robin! No more. But he...
Imagine you had lost what he has lost.
Go and find him, make
your apologies. Go!
Lady Gisborne...
...Lord Malcolm.
How fortuitous to
find you both together.
Have you told the
children the good news?
What?
Do you think they'll want a
little brother or a sister?
You've been spying on us?
I've been looking for an opportunity to get what I deserve
- lands of my own.
You will give me yours, lady,
unless you want everyone
to know your little secret.
Very well. Go to Nottingham,
have the deeds drawn up.
Thank you, my lord.
Malcolm, the lands have to pass to Guy.
And they will.
On Saturday we shall be married.
Your lands will become mine and
Longthorn's deeds will be worthless.
Saturday? The children
have just lost their father!
But we must marry soon.
ROBIN: They never married.
No, they only ever planned to.
Didn't they, Guy?
You knew?
I found out.
I saw my mother making
her way into the forest,
and so I followed.
She still loved him.
I was so angry.She told me
that I had to forget him...
...pretend that he didn't exist.
Yet here she was,
denying me my father.
How could you? Guy! You frightened me.
I saw you with Father. You said...
I could not just abandon him.
He needs care.
You said he was gone. I know.
Did Malcolm make you do it?
I've seen how he looks at you.
He wants you for himself.
Malcolm is a good man, Guy.
He can take care of us now
that your father cannot.
We are to be married. Married?
Yes, on Saturday. It is for
the best. All will be well.
But you must promise not to
speak of it until it is done.
Why? Why must it be a
secret? Just promise me.
You must tell no-one
- especially Robin.
He must hear it from his father.
You don't have to do this, Mother.
Let's leave Nottingham, go back to France,
take Father with us. We'll be together...
Mon dieu!
What is it? Ah! Get help! Get help!
Hurry, Guy, please!
I'd never run so fast.
I thought that...
STRANGER:She was in labour.
I see that now.
What happened to the baby?
He was early...
but strong.
Look.
He is so quiet...
like he knows he's a secret.
And look at this.
My son, by this mark, you
will never be lost to me.
Ghislaine...
I have thought of a name.
Archer.
Do you think it suits?
I do.
But it's...
I know. It is time.
STRANGER:The baby was to
be taken to a safe place
until the parents could marry
and reclaim him.
You ride carefully.
You carry precious cargo.
THUNDER CRASHES Go.
And that was the last he or
Ghislaineever saw of their son.
CROWS CAW
Father?
My son. Wh...?
Come with me.
You should not have come here.
I needed to tell you something.
Malcolm Locksley is
forcing Mother to marry him.
The wedding is tomorrow.
You must stop them.
No.
That's no longer my right.
You must try and understand.
Your mother needs a husband,
and you need a father. I
thought I already had one.
Guy... I thought you loved us,
even when you went to the war.
But you can't love us.
If you did, you would
never let this happen.
If you did, you'd fight for us!
Leave me be.
Leper.
I've readied an altar in the woods.
He's back - the leper - Guy's father!
He's in their house.
Hold!
What's going on? The leper's back.
Do you hear that?
The leper's back...
...risking all our lives again!
Come on.
Come on!
Where is he?
Out of my way, boy.
No! Not after what
you did to my father!
Get out! Get out! Get
your sister out of here!
Ghislaine, there is a
fire. You must leave now.
You were told not to return.
You expected me to stay away
whilst you stole my wife?
Your wife? The woman that
you abandoned for years?
Oh, please don't do this!
Why are you not leaving? Go!
Go! Not without you. Both of you!
I was wrong to give up without a fight.
I see clearly now how you had things
planned from the moment I returned.
You brought disease to your family!
If you loved them, you
would have stayed away.
You know nothing of our love. It was
she who came to me in the leper colony.
But perhaps your hold over her
wasn't as strong as you thought.
Malcolm! Malcolm!
He is my husband, the
father of my children!
And so am I!
Our son.
There is a child?!
Look! Sir Malcolm is burning the place!
No! It was an accident.
The only way to get rid of the disease!
Come on!No, you're wrong!
Don't do this!Stop! Stop!
Wait! My father's inside!
No! No!
GUY: I should have saved her.
I should have braved the flames.
It would have been too
late. You don't know that.
She was already dead.
GHISLAINE:No!
Please!
This solves nothing. Enough!
She's dead.
Get off!
What will that achieve?
He didn't kill Ghislaine.
No, but his father did.
And as his father's
dead... No, he isn't.
Explain yourself.
Go.
My children will be
better off without me...
...and I wish only to spend
my last moments with my wife...
alone.
Please!
Robin!
Let me go! My father's inside!
Yours, too! And your
mother! Do something!
Get off me!
My father would never
have left me alone!
No...
No!
I'm sorry, Robin.
I mourned for you!
How could I be your father
after what I had done?
After all I'd taught you about honour?
Robin...
...I couldn't bear to see
the shame in your eyes.
GUY: You killed her.
All these years, I
thought it was my fault -
that my parents died because
of the fire that I started -
but it was you.
That guilt was with me every day.
Every day!
Get off him! Can't you
see he deserves this?
He betrayed us both!
You're right.
Death would be a release.
There have been many times when I've
been tempted to do the job myself.
And you expect us to feel
sorry for you?Of course not.
So why now? Why tell
us after all this time?
Because of your brother.
I need you to forgive each other...
...so that you can unite
and save him.This again!
Everything I have
told you is the truth.
And I have told you
so you don't destroy each other,
like your fathers.
Son...
No.
You lost the right to call me son
when you left me alone in the world.
Maybe.
But didn't it make you
the man you are today?
Children...
we've searched what is
left of Gisborne Manor.
Your parents...
there's nothing left.
You killed them!
All of you
- you murdered them. You started the fire, boy.
That's right, you go back
to where you came from.
News of your father's shame
won't have reached France yet.
You're no longer welcome
anywhere near my lands.
YOUR lands? Longthorn,
you are not a noble
- you have no right to this land.
The village will become part
of the Locksley estate again.
They are Robin's lands now. Me?
Him? You run along.
There's no room for
you here now, either.
Robin, he's stealing from
you, from your poor father.
I'm doing the boy a kindness.
Do you really think you
can run this estate, boy,
feed the people when they're
hungry, clothe them when they freeze?
You're just a child.
Robin! I thought not.
The duty falls to me.
Right, let's start as we
mean to go on, shall we?
Tax collection.
I don't know what to do.
MALCOLM: You shouldn't stand by
and let something terrible happen
because you were too scared
to do the right thing.
Thank you.
WOMAN: Leave us alone! Leave us alone!
Leave them be!
Ignore him.
Next time, I won't miss.
You stupid little boy!
My father never struck
me. Neither will you.
These are my people and I will
care for them as my father intended.
I am lord of the manor now.
We'll see how long that lasts.
Wait till you have to deal with your
first poor harvest or bad winter.
You'll be begging for
help. And he will have it.
What? From a simpering
priest and a few villagers?
MAN:Go on, get out of here.
LAUGHTER
CHEERING
Both of your lives could
have been so different
were it not for the
mistakes your parents made.
We can't change that, and
I can never forgive Guy.
Why not?
Because he showed no remorse
for what he did to Marian.
You know nothing.
You worked and killed
for the Sheriff for years.
You'd still be under
his power without me!
What do you mean?
You killed the Sheriff.
And I intend to kill the new one, too.
First, join and save your
brother. You know where he is?
Finally...
...after many years of searching.
I thought if I could find him, tell
him the truth about who he was...
It seemed the right thing
to do... for Ghislaine.
It wasn't easy.
He doesn't stay in the same place
for long, but now he has no choice.
Where is he?
York jail.
He is to hang.
I'm too sick to help.
I'm dying, Robin.
Father...
You are my last chance.
Together, I know you can both do this.
Remember the birthmark...
shaped like an arrow-head.
That is why your
mother named him Archer.
You'll do this for me?
I won't let him die, Father.
I wish I could see you
three together at last.
Well, surely we have
more time... I'm sorry.
No!
Look, I have no desire
to see you again...
Save him...
...and save yourselves.
Urgh.
Gisborne...Enough.
No more talk.
But what do you think we should...?
To York.
Oh, oh, oh...
Gisborne has chosen to join
us in our struggle, John.
Our brother is in jail in
York, awaiting execution.
Who is this brother, Robin?
I'm Archer.
He brings back mysteries
from the Orient, Harold.
Me and Gisborne will go
to York and bring him back.
Go to the Sheriff of York.
Tell him I will offer 100
crowns for their heads.
Stop!
Prepare them all to die.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org